W-12538650-trust-nodeAffinity-duke (#164)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.4/modules/ROOT/pages/_partials/task-node-affinity.adoc

//tag::helm-node-affinity[]

> 

Author: In Progress: ready for INITIAL tech review; not yet ready for FINAL tech or editorial review.

Eventually, after initial tech review, this file will contain only include tags, and a separate adoc file in the /pages directory will use the include tags for repeated content. Those tags will be surrounded by text (currently in this file) that is not repeated. Non-tag content will be removed from this file. It's just easier to see it all together in the beginning before it gets separated into tags.

//TEMPORARY TAG for test builds
//tag::temp-tag1[]
= Select a Node for Flex Gateway Deployments

Flex Gateway is often critical to the security of a cluster, so it is important to host it on a specialized node that meets specific requirements, instead of using the nodes that host your other deployments.

> To select a suitable host node for a Pod that contains Flex Gateway, you can incorporate custom node affinity rules from your Pod specification (Pod spec) into an Ingress Controller Helm chart. Helm packages files for related Kubernetes resources into a Helm chart. For more information about node affinity, see the https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#node-affinity[Kubernetes documentation^].

Author: regarding "Ingress Controller Helm chart":
Not sure what term we use for this. I see that term and "flex-gateway Helm chart". Do we have a preference? See examples here: https://docs.mulesoft.com/gateway/1.3/flex-conn-reg-run-up

//end::config-flex-affinity-condition[]

[source,yaml,subs=attributes+]
----
affinity:
 nodeAffinity:
   requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
     nodeSelectorTerms:
     - matchExpressions:
       - key: <node-label-key>
         operator: <operator>
         values:
         - <node-label-value>
       # - Add any other node label values. 
    # - Add any other required conditions.
----

You can add as many values and conditions as the node requires. 

//TAG for upgrading pod YAML spec
//tag::upgrade-flex-pod-spec-yaml[]
To incorporate the node affinity settings from your Pod spec into the Helm chart, you need to use a Helm command. https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/[Helm^], a tool used to install Flex Gateway, monitoring tools, and applications. A minimum Helm version of 3.0.0 is required. 

The Helm command to use depends on whether Flex Gateway is installed:

* If you are installing Flex Gateway for the first time, use a command like this one for the installation:
+
[source,kubernetes,subs=attributes+]
----

> helm -n gateway upgrade -i --create-namespace --wait ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway -f <path-to-yaml-file> --set-file registration.content=<path-to-registration>

Author: can we break up the command (for ex, with \ ) so that it appears on multiple lines, avoiding the need to do a lot of horizontal scrolling?

Reviewer: yes, we can do this

Author: Ok, added.

----
+
Notice that the command passes the YAML file for the Pod spec.

* If Flex Gateway is installed already, use a command like this one to your running instance:
+
[source,kubernetes,subs=attributes+]
----

> helm -n gateway upgrade -i --create-namespace --wait ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway --reuse-values -f <path-to-yaml-file>

Author: same Q re breaking up the command in to multiple lines

Reviewer: same answer :P

Reviewer: Here I would add that the difference between both commands is that this one reuses all the existing configuration values, and the one above resets them and uses only the ones that you specify. This is because the `--reuse-values` flag

Author: ```suggestion
helm -n gateway upgrade -i --create-namespace \
--wait ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway \
--reuse-values -f <path-to-yaml-file>
```

//TEMPORARY TAG for test builds
//tag::temp-tag1[]
= Select a Node for Flex Gateway Deployments

Flex Gateway is often critical to the security of a cluster, so it is important to host it on a specialized node that meets specific requirements, instead of using the nodes that host your other deployments.

To enable the Kubernetes scheduler to select a suitable host node for a Pod that contains Flex Gateway, you can incorporate custom node affinity rules from your Pod specification (Pod spec) into a Helm chart for your Flex Gateway Ingress Controller. For more information about node affinity, see the https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#node-affinity[Kubernetes documentation^].

[[list_add_labels]]
== List and Create Node Labels

> 

Author: Are there any common node characteristics we'd want for our flex pod? In other words, do we need to provide guidance on what sort of node labels they might want to create for their nodes or what labels our flex pod spec might want to use in the node affinity rules?

Reviewer: not really. Users can have any label they want to identify their nodes

Author: ok, I wondered if mocking a security-themed label as an example might help just to give them the idea. I see some recommended labels in the k8 docs but don't see anything that jumps out at me around security.

For guidance, see the following configuration options:

* <<strict_match_only>>
* <<soft_match_only>>
* <<all_match_types>>

[[strict_match_only]]
=== Configure a Required Node Matching Rule for a Pod 

In required node matching, the node must meet all node affinity rules configured for a Pod. Otherwise, the deployment fails. 

//end::temp-tag1[]

//TAG for common node affinity settings
//tag::config-flex-affinity-condition[]
Configure a node affinity rule in the Pod spec file. Each condition to a rule requires a node label as a `key`, an operator, and one or more node label values to accept for a node with that key. For operators, you can use `In`, `NotIn`, `Exists`,  `DoesNotExist`, `Gt`, and `Lt`.
//end::config-flex-affinity-condition[]

[source,yaml,subs=attributes+]
----
affinity:
 nodeAffinity:
   requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
     nodeSelectorTerms:
     - matchExpressions:
       - key: <node-label-key>
         operator: <operator>
         values:
         - <node-label-value>
       # - Add any other node label values. 
    # - Add any other required conditions.
----

> 

Author: Do we want to provide a more concrete or realistic example? And would it be more common to use required, preferred, or combined (required and fixed) node affinity for a flex pod? Or it just depends?

Reviewer: A concrete example could be useful, but IMO this example is clear enough, this configuration is not very complex

Reviewer: Regarding of what is more common to use, it really depends on your needs. If you need flex to run on specific nodes, then required is your way to go. If not maybe preferred is better suited

Author: Ok, sounds good.

You can add as many values and conditions as the node requires.

After configuring the Pod spec, proceed to <<upgrade_helm_chart>>.

//TAG for upgrading pod YAML spec
//tag::upgrade-flex-pod-spec-yaml[]
[[upgrade_helm_chart]]
== Upgrade the Helm Chart

After adding the node affinity settings to your Pod spec, incorporate the spec file into the Helm chart for your Flex Gateway Ingress Controller so that the Kubernetes scheduler can use the setting. https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install[Helm^] is a tool used to install Flex Gateway, monitoring tools, and applications. A minimum Helm version of 3.0.0 is required. 

Use a Helm command to incorporate the node affinity settings from your Pod spec into the Helm chart. The command to use depends on whether Flex Gateway is installed:

> * If you are installing Flex Gateway for the first time, use a command like this one for the installation:

Author: ```suggestion
* If you are installing Flex Gateway for the first time, use the command to set all values in the chart:
```

+
[source,kubernetes,subs=attributes+]
----

> helm -n gateway upgrade -i --create-namespace --wait ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway -f <path-to-yaml-file> --set-file registration.content=<path-to-registration>

Author: ```suggestion
helm -n gateway upgrade -i --create-namespace \ 
--wait ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway \
-f <path-to-yaml-file> \
--set-file registration.content=<path-to-registration>
```

----
+
Notice that the command passes the YAML file for the Pod spec.

> * If Flex Gateway is installed already, use a command like this one to your running instance:

Author: ```suggestion
* If Flex Gateway is installed already, use this command to reuse the chart's existing configuration and set the node affinity configuration:
```

Author: @ahejeij I'm not sure about just saying that it reuses the chart's existing config, since we're updating the YAML. Does the above look ok? Or how would you revise it?

Reviewer: looks good to me!

//end::config-flex-affinity-condition[]

[source,yaml,subs=attributes+]
----
affinity:
 nodeAffinity:
   requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
     nodeSelectorTerms:
     - matchExpressions:
       - key: <node-label-key>
         operator: <operator>
         values:
         - <node-label-value>
       # - Add any other node label values. 
    # - Add any other required conditions.
----

You can add as many values and conditions as the node requires.

After configuring the Pod spec, proceed to <<upgrade_helm_chart>>.

//TAG for upgrading pod YAML spec
//tag::upgrade-flex-pod-spec-yaml[]
[[upgrade_helm_chart]]
== Upgrade the Helm Chart

After adding the node affinity settings to your Pod spec, incorporate the spec file into the Helm chart for your Flex Gateway Ingress Controller so that the Kubernetes scheduler can use the setting. https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install[Helm^] is a tool used to install Flex Gateway, monitoring tools, and applications. A minimum Helm version of 3.0.0 is required. 

Use a Helm command to incorporate the node affinity settings from your Pod spec into the Helm chart. The command to use depends on whether Flex Gateway is installed:

> * If you are installing Flex Gateway for the first time, use the command to set all values in the chart:

Author: ```suggestion
* If you are installing Flex Gateway for the first time, use the command to set all values in the chart:
```
Incorporates feedback.

//end::config-flex-affinity-condition[]

[source,yaml,subs=attributes+]
----
affinity:
 nodeAffinity:
   requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
     nodeSelectorTerms:
     - matchExpressions:
       - key: <node-label-key>
         operator: <operator>
         values:
         - <node-label-value>
       # - Add any other node label values. 
    # - Add any other required conditions.
----

You can add as many values and conditions as the node requires.

After configuring the Pod spec, proceed to <<upgrade_helm_chart>>.

//TAG for upgrading pod YAML spec
//tag::upgrade-flex-pod-spec-yaml[]
[[upgrade_helm_chart]]
== Upgrade the Helm Chart

After adding the node affinity settings to your Pod spec, incorporate the spec file into the Helm chart for your Flex Gateway Ingress Controller so that the Kubernetes scheduler can use the setting. https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install[Helm^] is a tool used to install Flex Gateway, monitoring tools, and applications. A minimum Helm version of 3.0.0 is required. 

Use a Helm command to incorporate the node affinity settings from your Pod spec into the Helm chart. The command to use depends on whether Flex Gateway is installed:

> 

Author: Doe the next sentence ("If you are installing...") look ok?

Reviewer: yes, that seems ok to me

> * If you are installing Flex Gateway for the first time, use the command to set all values in the chart:

Author: ```suggestion
* If you are installing Flex Gateway for the first time, use this command to set all values in the chart:
```

+

> [source,kubernetes,subs=attributes+]

Author: @ahejeij Does the multi-line syntax look ok below?

Reviewer: yes!
